Meet Juan Cayul from Chile.
He's of the Mapuche tribe, a tribe which has faced discrimination over the years.
Because of the discrimination, some may be reluctant to use their language Mapudangun in public.
This became a challenge for Juan since he wanted to give his best in the ministry for Jehovah.
Mapudangun means the speech of my land.
It's a beautiful and expressive language, and it's the language of my heart.
When I was 12 years old, I went to live with my grandfather and my uncle's family so I could
study it in nearby school. My cousins spoke Mapudangun a lot, which made me really happy.
When I saw that some of my classmates didn't understand their schoolwork, especially a math class,
I would try to help them out. That's when I started to think about becoming a math teacher,
so I could really help others. But the head teacher told me that because I was speaking
Mapudangun and because I was helping my classmates, she was going to lower my grades.
When my father saw my grades, he was furious. He accused me of being lazy and not studying.
He withdrew me from school and I went back home to Trumin.
My dream of becoming a teacher was shattered because my dad had suffered so much as a victim
of discrimination. He told us we were not to speak Mapudangun. When I think about everything
that happened, it makes me very sad. Years later, I met Sylvia, who was Mapucci like me.
She proved to be a sensitive and loving person. We spoke Mapudangun together and that helped her
leave the bitterness I felt in my heart. Sometime later, I learned about someone else who made me feel
loved and valued Jehovah. That changed my life. All my pain disappeared once I got to know Jehovah.
My wife and I studied the Bible with the witnesses in Spanish. And so when I started to preach and
teach, I used Spanish too. One day, I was out in service and as we approached the house,
an elderly Mapucci woman came to the door. She was scared. So straight away, I greeted her in
Mapudangun. She invited us inside and spoke with us. That was the first time I had spoken about
Jehovah in my mother tongue. On her way back, I was deep in thought, praying to Jehovah about how
to help the Mapucci people. Many years passed before I saw an answer to my prayers. Then one day
after the meeting, I received an invitation to be a speaker at the first assembly to include talks
in Mapudangun. But I didn't want to accept the assignment. I felt worthless because of all the
discrimination I had endured. So I prayed again and again to Jehovah and began to meditate a lot.
Jehovah was now giving me an answer to my prayers. He sees our true value.
I was so happy, so very happy. I understood that Jehovah loved me and cared for me and that he would
continue to help me. In just a few years, not one, but several Mapudangun congregations were formed.
And now my wife and I, as well as our two children, serve in Mapudangun language congregations.
I've been assisting with Mapudangun translation for more than seven years now. When I tell the
brothers and sisters who work with me at the translation office about my childhood dream of becoming
a teacher, they tell me, you're our teacher now. I want to say to my brothers and sisters around
the world, don't put yourselves down. You're precious. You're precious to Jehovah. He will always
help you.